<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8"/>
    <title>why</title>
    <link rel="copyright" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/" type="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
    <style>
      /* <![CDATA[ */
      @import url('reset.css') screen, print;
      @import url('html5.css') screen, print;
      @import url('index.css') screen, print;
      /* ]]> */
    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <dl>
      <header id="title">
        <h1>why?</h1>
        <nav>
          <a href="/">home</a>
        </nav>
      </header>
      <section>
        <p>The situations in which you use a taupe link in your tweets are those in which you wish to reference another tweet: it’s equivalent to saying “see this tweet.” Sometimes, you want to reply to somebody’s tweet… and sometimes, you want to quote it. But sometimes, you don’t want to do either (for instance, you want your tweet to show up to <em>all</em> of your followers, but still semantically link it to another tweet; you can’t use the Twitter reply feature, as it will only show up to people who also follow the author of the other tweet); for those situations, a taupe is ideal.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <p>I expect you’re wondering why taupe is better than URI shortening services, like <a href="http://bit.ly/">bit.ly &amp; j.mp</a>, <a href="http://tr.im/">tr.im</a>, or <a href="http://is.gd/">is.gd</a> to link to tweets. The answer? Semanticity.</p>
        <p>When you create a bit.ly or tr.im URI from a tweet, there is no way (other than hitting the respective API) to decode that URI into an actual tweet. However, taupe URIs are nothing but a shorter version of the Twitter URI: they have the same ID as the tweet’s URI on <a href="http://twitter.com/" title="If I need to tell you what Twitter is… why are you here?">Twitter.com</a>.</p>
        <p>There are numerous benefits to this inherent semanticity. For instance, if your Twitter client stores tweets it has ‘seen,’ then it can associate taupe URIs in your tweets with the IDs of those tweets it is aware of; perhaps it could show a tweet you referenced below or next to your own taupe‐utilizing tweet or something. Doing the same thing with a ‘normal’ short URI service’s URIs would require you to make network requests to resolve that short URI, and then tests to determine if that URI points at a tweet. None of this is necessary with a truly semantic URI; it’s immediately recognizable as referencing a tweet, and can often be resolved without any network traffic at all. That is far faster and more efficient than the alternatives.</p>
      </section>
    </dl>
  </body>
</html>
